#2i2c pitch

## Summary

Use education in science to teach the culture of collaboration in code for
science.  And use this education to reach groups we often miss in more standard
hackathon formats.

## What I think this would need

I would love to set up a collaboration with 2i2c to pilot the machinery we need
for hosting and grading EdX-style courses, with JupyterHub integration.  In
particular, I would like to work with you to pilot a standard OpenEdX
/ JupyterHub setup for a course on brain imaging with a focus on
reproducibility, and collaboration through code.

I think these kinds of setups will become very important for teaching a new
culture of science, where the scientist is not on a consumer, but a contributor
to their tools.

I am hoping that the result becomes a well-supported, reasonably cheap pathway
for scientists to teach their fields and libraries online, with very good
integration of tools for collaboration, such as JupyterHub.  And that this
becomes a model for teaching across scientific disciplines and libraries.

In short - that we expand from demos of software, to software as integral to
science.

## Motivation

I was reflecting on the problem of finding developers, and particularly of
finding developers from under-represented groups.

For example, we have many female students and scientists in neuroscience, but
very few female developers of packages like Nibabel, a basic medical imaging
library.

My idea was to use our education to train all scientists in the ordinary
practice of using code and contributing to code, as they learn their subject
and do their work.   With others in Berkeley, I've been working hard on doing
that for in-person classes:

* [Reproducible and Collaborative Statistical Data
  Science](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnins.2018.00727)
  (2015).
* [Functional MRI
  methods](https://bic-berkeley.github.io/psych-214-fall-2016/syllabus.html)

So - why not extend that idea to online EdX classes - and expand the training
in the practice and culture of *contributing* to libraries as well as using
them?

And - we can run courses with paid certificates, where we run scholarships to
pay for the certificates, allowing us to give preference to groups we would not
ordinarily reach.
