
# NiTransforms: a NiBabel module for I/O of spatial transforms estimated with neuroimaging tools and their manipulation in Python

**Repository**: https://github.com/poldracklab/nitransforms (we should probably move it over to nipy, happy with that).

**Paper**: [ISBI Abstract](https://doi.org/10.1109/ISBI45749.2020.9098466) & [preprint](https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/8aq7b).

**JOSS Submission**: Ready on the repo, was postponed due to COVID and never got back to submitting it.


**About *NiTransforms***
Spatial transforms formalize mappings between coordinates of objects in biomedical images. Transforms typically are the outcome of image registration methodologies, which estimate the alignment between two images. Image registration is a prominent task present in nearly all standard image processing and analysis pipelines. The proliferation of software implementations of image registration methodologies has resulted in a spread of data structures and file formats used to preserve and communicate transforms. This segregation of formats precludes the compatibility between tools and endangers the reproducibility of results. We propose a software tool capable of converting between formats and resampling images to apply transforms generated by the most popular neuroimaging packages and libraries (AFNI, FSL, FreeSurfer, ITK, and SPM). The proposed software is subject to continuous integration tests to check the compatibility with each supported tool after every change to the code base. Compatibility between software tools and imaging formats is a necessary bridge to ensure the reproducibility of results and enable the optimization and evaluation of current image processing and analysis workflows.

---

As you will see, the paper itself attempted to be very educational. There we describe clearly what's the problem, why there's no other package like NiTransforms and why we see it as a module within NiBabel in the long run.

In the remaining of the document, I'll copy and paste what I can scratch out from previous CZI calls and other grants.

